+++
title = "Sell Something; Sell Yourself"
permalink = "/Sell-Something-Sell-Yourself.html"
date = 2013-03-15T16:23:00.001000Z
updated = "2013-03-15 16:23:40"
categories = [ "selling", "motivation", "career",]
draft = true

[blogger]
siteid = "15125061"
postid = "296845567295343620"
comments = "0"

[author]
name = "Jason Knight"
url = "https://plus.google.com/102340116383554399495?rel=author"
image = "//lh5.googleusercontent.com/-7hdboMymj1U/AAAAAAAAAAI/AAAAAAAAJXI/7HfgmM-lRPQ/s512-c/photo.jpg"

+++

<div class="css-full-post-content js-full-post-content">
I recently asked for some career advice from an individual immersed the Bay Area startup scene: "How can I best position myself in my n years of graduate school left to be competitive in the startup labor market?" Now to summarize the great conversation that ensued, I would bundle his advice up into the simple line, "Sell yourself." <br /><br />In job markets (especially very competitive ones), you are one warm body among a sea of warm bodies and unless you find some way to stand out, then you will almost certainly be eclipsed by those who have more connections, or have found a niche and started creating their personal brand. Now this is not some grand revelation in itself, as I think this is something nearly everyone can agree on, but the implications this has on the way we should be positioning ourselves in these 'labor markets' are something that a lot of people don't think very much about (beyond GPA's and resume formatting). <br /><br />Fortunately, strategies designed to combat this problem have been developed for hundreds of years. These strategies fall under the field of marketing: "The action or business of promoting and selling products or services." It just requires a slight shift to realize that the 'product' is yourself and the customers are your potential employers. So the solution is simple! Develop a strategy to position your product (skills and location mainly) to seek out and grab the attention of those in need of your services. Boiling this down to it's essence, we must learn to sell ourselves to potential employers.<br /><br />Some people I have mentioned this idea to have reacted with distaste: "I don't want to be a used-car salesman trying to trick unsuspecting employers!" But this is due to the bad connotation sometimes associated with selling. I see selling as something very linked (perhaps even identical) to leadership: sharing a vision or mental image in a way that other people can't help but see it as well. Craft or have an idea so powerful and evocative, but those that you tell it to can't help but think about it, want to be a part of it, and are willing to put some of their skin in the game to see it become a reality. <br /><br />To illustrate these ideas I'll apply them to myself: "My name is Jason, and I want to apply modern engineering and computer science to the treatment of complex disease. And also, so that we can harness biology in ways to make our planet cleaner, and enable colonization of future worlds through flexible food production." (Okay, it's a bit cheesy, but I never said I was a master at this or anything). You can hopefully see the essential elements in there: who I am, what I want to do, and what it might mean for your/our future (and therefore, why you would want to support me). <br /><br />Now this is only the first step of selling, after this I would need to convince someone that I actually have the capabilities to do such a thing, and then a solid plan for bringing it about under reasonable resource/time constraints. And for applying to jobs, I would need to explain why having this job would be one of the critical steps to achieving my ultimate goal. <br /><br />Some might argue that employers don't want people who have their own goals, and see this job as a means to their own ends, but I think this depends on the employer in question. Some employers (mainly startups) seek out these self-driven candidates and want to hear examples of their internal drive. Whereas other employers may simply be looking for 'cogs' in the machine and any kind of independence is probably more of a liability than an asset. Of course there is a continuum between these two beliefs, so don't think that a company has to be one or the other.<br /><br />But the more I thought about this advice, the more I realized that it wasn't only applicable to the startup labor market, but almost every avenue of life. In academia, if you are applying to postdoc or faculty positions, then you better believe that you need to sell yourself to the hiring committee and your potential future colleagues with your ability to perform and communicate meaningful research. In the traditional labor market, this is also clearly the case, but due to scale, differentiating yourselves from your peers is often restricted to GPA and previous work experience. Even in organized religion, in outreach work, you often have to 'sell' the teachings and practices to the uninformed. And parenting is a constant process of selling  concepts such as "please eat your carrots," and "time for a bath!"<br /><br />In fact, the only area that I can think of that doesn't (or shouldn't) involve selling yourself is in established, committed, relationships: While you <i>can</i> use the selling approach, from all that I have heard, read and experienced, the only long-term successful way to approach relationships is through true selflessness and 'out-of-the-box' thinking. (which, unfortunately, must wait for another blog post for a more thorough treatment).<br /><br />And even more than selling to other people, perhaps the most important aspect to this whole idea is that you must be able to sell yourself to <i>yourself</i>: If you don't strongly believe in how you spend your time, or the way you live your life, then  it becomes very difficult to motivate any significant actions, break habits, or bring about change in your own routines.<br /><br />(As always, if you have comments, please make them in the corresponding Google+ post, Thanks!)
</div>